hi everyone so recently I gave a 30-minute talk on large language models just kind of like an intro talk um unfortunately that talk was not recorded but a lot of people came to me after the talk and they told me that uh they really liked the talk so I would just I thought I would just re-record it and basically put it up on YouTube so here we go the busy person's intro to large language models director Scott okay so let's begin first of all what is a large language model really well a large language model is just two files right um there will be two files in this hypothetical directory so for example working with a specific example of the Llama 270b model this is a large language model released by meta Ai and this is basically the Llama series of language models the second iteration of it and this is the 70 billion parameter model of uh of this series so there's multiple models uh belonging to the Llama 2 Series uh 7 billion um 13 billion 34 billion and 70 billion is the biggest one.

The Llama 2 70b model is really just two files on your file system: the parameters file and the run file. The parameters file contains the weights of the neural network. Because this is a 70 billion parameter model, and each parameter is stored as 2 bytes (float16), the parameters file here is 140 gigabytes. In addition to these parameters, which is just a large list of numbers, you also need something that runs that neural network. This piece of code is implemented in our run file. This could be a C file or a python file or any other programming language really. It can be written in any arbitrary language, but C is sort of like a very simple language just to give you a sense, and it would only require about 500 lines of C with no other dependencies.

Now pre-training is the first of two stages that you need to build an assistant model like ChatGPT or Claude or Llama 2. In this pre-training stage, we collect a massive amount of text from the internet, e.g. 10 terabytes of text, and train a large neural network on it. This pre-training stage requires a massive GPU cluster, e.g. 1,000 GPUs running for 12 days, and costs around $2 million. The result is a 'base model' that has compressed the web text into 140 gigabytes of parameters. It acts as an internet document sampler, meaning if you ask it a question, it might output another question or complete the text like an internet document, rather than answering like a helpful assistant.

Fine-tuning is the second stage of building an assistant model. In this stage, we take the base model and align it using a smaller, high-quality dataset of human-labeled conversations (e.g. 100,000 conversations). In these conversations, human labelers write down the ideal response for a user query. Fine-tuning is much cheaper and faster (e.g., taking a few hours or a day on a few GPUs) and changes the format from an internet document sampler to a helpful assistant.
